in today's video we will be going
through 2007's american horror thriller
film the mist the movie is based on
stephen king's iconic psychological
horror novella by the same name spoilers
ahead you have been warned make sure to
give this video a thumbs up comment on
what your favorite part was and
subscribe to our channel for more
david drayton lives with his wife
stephanie and their eight-year-old son
billy in bridgeton maine david is an
artist by profession one day their town
is hit by a terrible storm and they are
forced to take shelter in their basement
for the night the storm incurs
significant damage throughout the town
cutting power and phone lines the storm
also sent a tree flying into david's
house destroying his living room and
professional paintings while david's big
shot city attorney neighbor brent
norton's car has been wrecked by a
fallen tree while surveying the damage
david notices thick mist advancing over
the lake coming from the mountains david
and billy then leave for the town with
their neighbor brent to buy supplies on
their way to the town they come across a
convoy of military vehicles driving
towards the lake in a hurry and discuss
the us military's undergoing secret
project in their town despite the
setting in maine the film was shot
entirely in louisiana and texas to frank
darabont's delight stephen king could
not distinguish it from maine when
watching the movie while the trio shop
at the supermarket they watch police
cars speed down the street and the
sirens throughout the town suddenly
start to go off the shoppers look around
puzzled when out of nowhere a man named
dan miller comes running into the store
with a bleeding nose dan frightened
warns the customers of a danger lurking
in the mist he reveals that there's
something in it that killed one of his
friends prompting store managers ollie
weeks and bud brown to close off the
supermarket however a shopper insists on
going out as he ventures out and starts
walking to his car the fast-moving mist
rapidly takes over the supermarket and
he suddenly starts screaming frightening
the shoppers inside the supermarket as
they just begin to make sense of the
situation the whole building suddenly
starts shaking terrifying the shoppers
here is some trivia the earthquake scene
included a surprise in the form of a
huge earthquake rumble recording that
they played by a large bass speakers
without warning the cast in advance
apparently everybody jumped after a
while the trembling stops and the store
manager's request everyone to stay
inside the store still another customer
insists on going home to her children
despite everyone else's reservations she
asks the men in the store to escort her
home oh ma'am this is a wendy's after
everyone in the store refuses to take
her home she then ventures out by
herself stephen king himself said that
he was genuinely frightened by this
adaptation of his novel director frank
darabont described that as the happiest
moment of his career as the day passes
billy starts to get cold and ollie
suggests david to use furniture pads in
the loading dock to keep billy warm
david then asks a woman named hattie to
watch billy as he goes to the back of
the store to fetch the pads in the
loading dock david notices the generator
malfunctioning and releasing a lot of
smoke he quickly turns it off and again
starts looking for furniture pads when
suddenly some creature tries to force
its way into the loading dock through
the rolling shutter door a spook david
rushes back to the front when he runs
into ollie store clerk norm and
mechanics jim and myron heading to the
loading dock to check the generator
david tells him about the strange
occurrence but they remain skeptical and
go to the loading dock to repair the
generator after inspecting the generator
myron reveals that perhaps the
generator's exhaust vent has been
blocked and norm offers to go through
the rolling door to unblock it david and
ollie warn him against going out but
norm and the other two mechanics get
agitated and insist on clearing the vent
david and ollie eventually relent and
norm opens the door quick trivia it took
a while to configure but the loading
dock effect of having the miss stay at
the open roll-up door without spilling
in had to do with the temperature in the
room and air pressure the men curiously
wait for something to appear but nothing
happens norm then turns around to mock
david and ollie when suddenly tentacles
of a creature reach through the rolling
door and grab norm's leg the cocky norm
freaks out and starts screaming for help
david and ollie try to help him but the
creature manages to drag norm out life
knows a way or two to humble you real
quick or dare i say kill you real quick
in this instance the tentacles then
retreat but not before david chops a
chunk of it with an axe david and ollie
disclose the development to the rest of
the shoppers and barricade the glass
front of the store with sacks of food
items the events eventually start to
take a toll on the customers mrs carmody
known for her unstable nature begins to
preach about the end of days she tells
the shoppers it is futile to attempt to
prevent the inevitable and they must
prepare to meet their makers she
continues that humans have mocked god
far too long and now he is demanding
retribution in blood sacrifice it starts
to frighten the children and a local
teacher named amanda dunfrey slaps mrs
carmody to shut her up i mean do we
blame amanda some people only understand
this sort of language as well as
barricading the store david and other
customers also gather tools and weapons
to fight the alien threats amanda
reveals that she carries a revolver and
gives it to ali who is a former regional
shooting champion convenient among the
shoppers are also skeptics like david's
neighbor brent who marks the
extraordinary claims he speculates that
the threat might be natural or man-made
but it cannot be supernatural led by
brent the skeptics decide to venture out
to inspect the threat themselves and
seek help from the government
authorities david convinces one of the
skeptics to tie one end of a long rope
around his waist with its other end held
by david and ali from inside the store
as a safety precaution the group then
heads out and soon disappears in the
mist the skeptic suddenly seemingly
begins to pull david and ollie
vigorously with the rope after a lot of
struggle the two managed to pull the
rope back but only to retrieve a severed
lower half of the man's body horrifying
the customers david then forms
connections with several people in the
store including amanda and irene repler
who also came into conflict with mrs
carmody over her religious zealotry as
nightfalls enormous flying insects
attracted to the lights inside swarmed
the store quick behind the scenes fact
the window impacts were accomplished by
hurling baseballs at the glass and then
digitally removing them from the final
shot as the customers just begin to wrap
their heads around the gigantic insects
suddenly pterodactyl-like flying
creatures start banging on the store's
glass preying on the massive insects
soon the glass gives in and breaks
allowing the insects to fly into the
store followed by the creatures the
shoppers run around in panic as david
and a few others scramble to kill the
alien creatures the creatures kill two
people while a man named joe gets
severely burned in an attempt to
incinerate the insects an insect lands
on mrs carmody but for some reason
leaves her unscathed david lights and
beats one flying creature to death while
ollie shoots one dead eventually all
insects and creatures that stormed into
the store are killed the chaos and mrs
carmody's miraculous survival
proselytizes other shoppers and she
starts gaining followers among the
survivors most shoppers have seemingly
been divided into groups a small one led
by david and the other by mrs carmody
meanwhile joe's condition worsens and he
cries unable to bear the pain of getting
severely burned he pleads with david and
ollie to relieve him of his pain as they
console joe amanda reveals that hattie
the woman who is taking care of david's
son billy has committed suicide by
overdosing on pills watching the
situation continue to spiral at the
store david reveals his intentions to
leave the building for good and drive as
far away as possible from the mist in
his car parked outside as these alien
creatures seemed to hide in the mist
amanda and others warned him that it
would be dangerous and suicidal but
david retorts that the alien creatures
could storm into the building anytime
and kill them anyway so he prefers
taking a risk he also brings up the fact
that mrs carmody is rapidly converting
more people and she will soon look for
people to sacrifice david gives amanda
and the others the time to think it over
till the next morning and meanwhile he
gets ready to leave for the pharmacy to
get medical supplies for joe ollie joe's
brother bobby jim mrs repler dan fellow
customer mike and a soldier named jessup
agreed to go with him as they head out
they are met with protests from mrs
carmody and her eccentric followers but
the group heads to the pharmacy defying
them the medical store is dark and
deserted the pharmacy is called king's
pharmacy most likely a reference to
author stephen king the group swiftly
begins to collect medicines when they
hear the noise of a creature moving
spook they look around nervously only to
notice bodies of people hanging in the
air by spider webs
suddenly an alive soldier suspended by
the web grabs jim from behind freaking
him out david and jessup try to free him
but the soldier is firmly glued to the
wall the soldier keeps apologetically
saying it is our fault before he begins
to convulse and tiny spiders crawl out
of his body that we're eating his
insides a colossal spider then appears
and starts shooting highly acidic
threads of the group it manages to get
bobby's leg and he screams in pain a
spider then jumps on mike and starts
eating him frightened the group begins
rushing towards the exit dragging a
severely wounded bobby with them however
bobby dies midway and the group leaves
without him joe passes away before david
can get back to the store with
painkillers
did you know that the characters of
david and amanda were initially supposed
to know each other already and have been
having an affair
the situation in the store continues to
deteriorate as the failed expedition
gives mrs carmody more ammunition and
she uses it to increase her influence by
offering protection from divine wrath to
new converts traumatized by the events
in the pharmacy jim two becomes a
follower of mrs carmody the next day
with mrs carmody's increasing popularity
and her growing eccentricity david feels
the pressure to get to the bottom of the
threat they are facing and abandon the
store he remembers the dying soldier's
last words at the pharmacy and goes to
talk with jessup and his two military
buddies stuck in the store they soon
discover that jessup's two military
friends hung themselves in the loading
dock jessup breaks down in tears and
disbelief he reveals the military's
involvement in the whole ordeal of
course the government is somehow
involved in this mess a crazed gym
overhears their conversation and drags
jess up to mrs carmody and her other
followers a frightened jessup then
reveals that a government project to
discover other dimensions was underway
at the military base scientists may have
opened the doorway into a dimension
containing the creatures invading the
town
the revelation enrages mrs carmody she
blames jessup for bringing the wrath
upon them by going against the will of
god and the forbidden rules her
incitement rouse her followers up and
the mob starts lynching jessup mrs
carmody then orders her followers to
expel jessup from the store and offer
him to the beast outside david and
others try to intervene but mrs
carmody's followers easily overpower
them and they watch helplessly as jessup
is devoured by a giant praying
mantis-like creature
did you know that the film's director
darabon added the jessup character to
drive home the danger that mrs carmody
and her mob represent
early the next morning david billy
amanda ollie mrs repler dan bud myron
and a man named cornell prepared to
leave the store secretly but they soon
learned that mrs carmody uncovered their
plan and her followers block their exit
mrs carmody accuses david and his group
of going against god's will and incites
her followers she demands david to hand
over billy as the next sacrifice a
struggle follows the cult tries to
snatch the child as david and others
desperately try to keep them away left
with no choice ollie shoots mrs carmady
dead and forces her followers to stand
down at gunpoint david and his group
then quickly rush out of the store
outside myron sprains his ankle bud and
cornell help myron run but they soon get
separated from others in the mist they
are soon attacked by gigantic spiders
the spiders devour cornell and myron but
bud manages to run back to the store
meanwhile david billy amanda mrs repler
and ollie managed to reach david's car
however ollie is soon killed by the
creature david and other survivors drive
through the deserted town drowned in
mist he passes through his wrecked home
david notices his wife stephanie's dead
body outside she died while fixing her
home's front window that got wrecked by
a tree an emotional david then breaks
into tears amanda consoles him and after
pulling himself together david continues
to drive away from the town after
passing several cars school buses houses
with dead bodies inside and a colossal
six-legged beast they eventually run out
of gas with no means of escaping the
mist the resigned group members decide
to end their lives david shoots billy
and the other three survivors with his
four remaining bullets he then leaves
the car and angrily challenges the
creatures to take him he suddenly hears
the sound of something approaching him
the mist suddenly dissipates revealing
the vanguard of a us army armored column
that is in the process of exterminating
the creatures and restoring order seeing
that they have also rescued those from
the store including the woman who left
to get to her kids david realizing that
he killed his son and friends for
nothing and that they were just moments
away from being rescued drops to his
knees screaming in anguish over what he
has done
sheesh talk about regret although the
movie had such a bleak unforgiving and
finite conclusion for the main character
the novella had a more open ambiguous
and hopeful ending for david in the book
david hears a nearby town's name called
hartford in a brief radio transmission
from the car and chooses to believe that
the city might offer some type of
sanctuary for himself and the others in
the end after driving for a while when
they stop to rest for the night he
kisses his son goodnight and whispers
hartford and hope to him
thanks for watching make sure to like
the video if you enjoyed it and
subscribe to the channel to see more of
these movie summaries